---
layout: post
title: "Fuck you, said Nokia"
date: 2013-09-03 21:21
comments: true
categories: [industry, mobile]
---

[Since this is the day](http://yle.fi/uutiset/end_of_an_era_nokia_sells_phone_business_to_microsoft/6811414) it ended, Nokia phones is being sold to famous mobile operating system vendor Microsoft, and I'm a Finn, I'm entitled for a little rant.

I have a brief history with Nokia. Only from the position of subcontractor though. I've seen few sides of the company's battle itself like a retarted hydra. I wasn't all that much around in the glory days. To that extent, there's little something that really fucks me up.


[It's the stuff like this](http://yle.fi/uutiset/myyntipaatos_herkisti_siilasmaan_-_kaytin_nokiaa_jo_silloin_kun_puhelimet_olivat_liian_painavia_kannettavaksi_mukana/6813150). Please translate if you will. Basically it's the people who drove down the few innovative things in Nokia's mobile R&D are now feeling all sentimental and shit.

**We should not let them.**

I'm not much to say how to feel about that, for me the company is mostly very badly managed, was guided by some bloody insane metrics, and at the end of my contract was pretty much in horrid turmoil.

But I'm going to say it anyway.

The people who have the right to feel all sentimental, and memorize the glory days are they guys in Symbian, in S40 in Meego and shit. Who did some amazing stuff in support functions to get rid of the brainfarts injected into the system. I salute you.

It's the devs who hand crafted two good and one splendid platform. There was amazing drive to push it through, to get shit shipped against the fuckton of managerial bullshit. It's the guys who didn't play power games but wrote, tested, managed to deliver.

Most of them work for Nokia no more.

But the people in the board on Nokia, who actively took actions to shut the old fucker down for good, they have no right to feel sentimental.

**We should not let them**.

*All in all it's a good day. I welcome the shift of focus on Finnish tech industry. It's interesting to see what Nokia is up to now, hopefully they manage to clean up the bad juju by which it is infected so heavily. Maybe there's actually light out there for us to see, since for too long we have all been shadowed by a falling giant*.
